---
title: Spending money shortens your life
date: '2012-08-14'
description:
categories: saving
---

<p>One morning you awake to find the tooth fairy made an accounting error in
your&nbsp;favor. &nbsp;She left $15 million under your pillow. &nbsp;Now you
have some choices to&nbsp;make. &nbsp;Here is one: Would you continue to wake
up each day and go to your&nbsp;current job?</p>

<p>We all have a certain amount of time to live. &nbsp;Every dollar we earn is
given in&nbsp;exchange for time spent working. &nbsp;So whenever we buy a car
or underwear or&nbsp;peanut butter we are paying in dollars but those dollars
represent time. &nbsp;In a&nbsp;very real sense, buying stuff shortens your
life. &nbsp;(And btw that means a&nbsp;charitible donation is literally giving
part of your life to another, taxes are the&nbsp;government redistributing
life, national debt shortens the life of people of&nbsp;the future, etc,
etc.)</p>

<p>The most common response to this problem is: Find a job you love. &nbsp;This
is good&nbsp;advice. &nbsp;The more pleasant your job is, the lower the
opportunity cost. &nbsp;But&nbsp;think about the tooth fairy test.
&nbsp;There just arent very many jobs&nbsp;out there that are going to pass
that test. &nbsp;And unless you love your job enough&nbsp;that you would do it
even if you were financially independent -- then you are&nbsp;still selling
away large pieces of your life.</p>

<p>There is only one escape: save enough money to live off the returns from
your&nbsp;investments. &nbsp;Reach this goal and you will never again need to
trade your time&nbsp;for food and housing.</p>

<p>
  <img class="src" src="http://farm2.staticflickr.com/1238/540936323_fc59ef2ce2.jpg" width="500" height="333" alt="Money">
  <a class="src" href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/thomashawk/540936323/" title="Money by Thomas Hawk, on Flickr">Photo by Thomas Hawk</a>
</p>

